The next thing I want you to set up
is I want you to create a new file.
Save this to the root of your project.
This is another thing that I almost
immediately do whenever I start
a new project, and
it's called .editorconfig, like that.
Okay?
Yes, we want to use the dot.
So you can see I got a like
a nice little mouse head.
That's called the, I have an extension for
that, I think it's called VS code, oops,
I'll show you, VS code icons right there.
That's where I get all these icons from,
so
if you install that you'll
get all the cool icons.
This one.
Okay.
Anyway, that's neither here nor there.
So inside of editor config,
this is a cross editor tool
that's letting the editor know
here's my code formatting rules.
And this is nice because
if you have a bunch of
people in your team that are working and
they want to use Vim, and
they want to use all
the other editors out there,
this is a common format that they all
understand of how to set up the project.
So I'm just gonna show you how
to write a really quick one.
So I'm gonna say root equals true.
This is the one that lets them know like,
this is the root most editor format,
you can have nested ones.
And then here I'm gonna put
inside of square brackets a star,
and this is going to be for
any file format.
Like if I wanted to do just Python files
that could do a header Py and this would
be just Python files or just JavaScript
files, but star's like for everything.
End of line, we want it to be lf.
That's Linux formatting.
I recommend that in general.
Insert File, new line.
We do Char set, you want utf-8.
Indent and style, or we can do size too,
that's an excellent, indent_size,
we want 2, cuz in general JavaScript
developers like 2, that's not always true.
But I find most open source
projects are 2 indent.
And indent_style,
we want spaces, cuz again,
JavaScript, it's fine if you like tabs,
I don't actually care.
But in general JavaScript
has landed on two spaces.
I'm not gonna argue about it.
That's just what it is.
Okay.
So now, my project is set up to
use these formatting tools and
my VS code just knows how to use it if
you have the right extension installed.
So again, the extension that you
need is called editor config.
And it's this one here I have it
installed EditorConfig for VS code,
2 million installs, go ahead and
install that one and
then it will automatically
read these files.
Another cool thing is prettier knows
how to read an editor confirm.
So if I went in there and
change it to four spaces,
prettier would automatically pick that up.
So what's great is if I have like a joint
Python JavaScript file because Python
generally uses four spaces for
indentation, you can set up Python have
one set of rules, you can set up
JavaScript one set of rules, but
this is a great project,
I definitely recommend that.
Okay, any questions about editor config?.
>> I have a question.
I thought that you could turn on and off
settings like within the prettier config.
Why are you choosing to use
editor config for that purpose?
>> Yeah, so it's good question.
So, the reason why is
because not every editor
understands prettier configs
that's the first thing.
So like for example VS code out
of the box does not read your
prettier config to figure out what
kind of tabs and spaces you want.
So if I don't put in an editor config by
default VS code defaults to four spaces.
So that's what editor config is useful for
is it makes VS code understand
that I want two spaces.
Eventually prettier would fix all that but
it's just easier while you're writing.
And then the second part is, yeah,
most editors understand
editor config quite easily.
And so it's to help all of your projects
with all of your teammates across
various different languages.
It's not totally essential, but it's
something that I do for every project.